In this lesson I want to talk about a feature of Elastic Load Balancing called sticky sessions with
sticky sessions.
A client is bound to a specific backhand instance for a period of time and the reason you might want
to do that is because you have some kind of session state that's kept within the instance for the lifetime
of the session so you don't want any new requests to go to a different backend instance.
So the way this works is a client connects through the load balancer and is distributed to instance
one now.
A cookie is generated by the low violence or in the case of a classic low balance so it can actually
be generated by an application.
But otherwise it's a load balance that generates a cookie and for the lifetime of that cookie the client
will always be bound to the same back end instance.
Now eventually the cookie will expire and in that case the next time a request comes from that same
client.
The elastic load balancer will route again and this time it takes it to instance for.
And again it has a cookie.
And until that cookie expires the client will always be bound to the back end instance instance for
in another scenario client free connects to client 6 for the lifetime of the cookie.
But in this case instance sex becomes unhealthy for some reason.
So what happens now is the client goes back to the low balance and the low balance that distributes
the connection to a different instance and a new cookie is generated.
So that's the way sticky sessions work and the behavior is slightly different for each type of load
balancer.
So for the application load balancer it's supported and the cookie name is always a WSJ LP and it is
a load balance that generates a cookie.
There's no support for application generated cookies with the network load balance because it's a layer
for low balance so there's no support at all for sticky sessions.
So you'd have to do that at another level with the classic load balancer sticky sessions are supported
both low balances generated cookies and application generated cookies.
So that's it for a very quick lesson on sticky sessions.
See you in the next lap.